# Topical Authority With Koray Tugberk GUBUR

**Expert:** Koray Tugberk Gubur
**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9RNJrGhH7ek
**Collected:** 2026-04-22

---

## Transcript

We are here with Korai Tubber Gubber, the original inventor of topical authority, topical map, uh cost of retrieval and a dozen or probably a hundred of other inventions. >> Thank you. >> And um I heard you many times speak about the topical map, what it is, how it works. Just want to clarify a few things to make it clear for the community because I can see some people still get lost in what this thing is and how it works. Um many times I heard you say that this is a kind of the concept of a map connects to a military idea or military background. [clears throat] Can you explain a little bit the connection that you made there? >> So when it comes to the phrase topics, people actually put that phrase together with many other random other phrases like topical clusters or I don't know topical past, topical hierarchy, topical sum graphs or etc. Technically Google has something called topical graph or topic graph which is a bit different but the reason actually I called what I do as topical map or topical mapping is that most of the time we divide a document into the two pieces macro and micro context and the micro context usually and directly is connected to the query context which means Google first actually chooses a query creates an index for it with certain type of main contexts and the attributes and we try to reflect these in our page design layout components and also the centerpiece annotation which is macro context. When we bring all these different microcontext sections basically for group of queries then we realize that some queries are actually sharing the same context and same index in Google system. From there actually we start to create some topical borders which means actually for these group of queries we just need one page which are very clear actually microcontext and some cases we are able to actually also force Google to construct a second index either or as well too if you have a high page rank source or if you're already a topical loader you can also change Google's actually judgment about the topics as well when it comes to the military section the moment that actually you see all the queries and all the indices or indexes of Google you realize that actually if I'm able rank especially for these group of queries that are grouped under a topic context and attribute entity relation or pairs. You realize that if I rank for this it start to support my ranking for the next section. I sometimes call these also query path which means which group of queries are searched before and after which another and also sometimes we call them query sets because technically we don't use the phrase keyword that much due to the Google's own terminology but when we use the phrase query network which is very close to the what Google calls as query fan out I can say but it's a fancy term technically in reality in the Google patents the query networks are already described they connect every query to another with a certain topicality and with a certain type of semantic frame. The moment that you rank for this, you realize that you can also rank for this one, which means that you're unlocking the next query is rankings and you create the map with a certain topical priority of publication by doing the calculation of okay, I have 24 main competitors to outrank and I'm going to be starting from the easiest smallest competitor by taking their main queries first in terms of of course these queries should be grouped under a topic and then after you complete that part, you move on to second, the third, the fourth, the fifth. So your map is actually not just randomly ordered topics. Actually there is a logic behind this order and prioritization and you try to convince search engine that look I might be a new source. I might be having lower page rank but the moment that actually they realize that they rank you for a topic and they see that a higher click satisfaction for a lower cost of retrieval. It gives them the confidence to test you for the next group of queries then the next group of queries then the next group of queries. And usually this testing and trusting process takes huge amount of time. That's why we also call this process as re ranking. Usually there is a initial ranking and there is also ranking. If your initial rankings are high enough, your ranking becomes faster. But if it is not high initially due to your let's say maybe it's a brand new domain, maybe you don't have enough level of brand source demand or satisfaction signals. And you have to actually trigger this ranking either by publishing faster and more or either by creating a really huge substantial amount of let's say uh document quality difference. We created multiple different case studies to explain many things like vastness momentum and the depth which means that if the vastness means that you cover let's say you publish a topical map for wheat train in the CBD niche you have two choices either you are going to be publishing 5,000 setrains with higher level of information clarity and lower cost of retrieval or either you are going to be publishing the most popular ones or medium popular ones that you can actually outrank some of the specific competitors with deeper level of information. So either you are going to be going fast and vast or either you are going to be going very premium elit selection for a very deep level work as well based on your budget or conditions for the company you can choose a different approach basically same goes for car industry or many ecom industries as well >> this is awesome so you gave a lot of different concepts over here it seems like it's a much more complex thing than just a list of keyword list of topics things like that so one of these critical components that you mentioned that this game or one of the key rules that the topical map is built on indie. >> It's almost like blocks that are connected to each other. A kind of stepbystep sequence. I mean in a way it's kind of like blocks that laid out over here. So this in a in a way it forms a kind of you can think of like a board game like a chess game or almost like a video game. >> That's true. That's why it is like military because when we use the term initutive semantics which I usually give the same example when you use the phrase Nancy smokes it brings the next next question naturally like does Nancy also drink for example or does Nancy also let's say do something another bad habit or something. So every declaration that you give is creating a second sentence or a second declaration. In that case, the same answer also goes for what people try to call today as generative engine optimization or AI SEO whatever for large language models too. And when an LLM actually starts processing a document network, they get all these declarations from your web documents. Then they do chain of reasoning and question generation to fill all these gaps. Let's say you actually have habits or hobbies. they are trying to create an entity and attribute relation and they are trying to find other options and they are trying to actually judge or fill these gaps as well. So when you create a topical map technically you never leave a g gap technically you cover everything with a proper order even if you don't mention something very explicitly it should be annotated or should be able to be extracted with high level of confidence by the search engine as well. >> Mhm. Another very interesting thing that I heard you mention many times and you said this now as well there seems to be an order like an actual sequence where you start what you go >> sort of sort of the [clears throat] starting block the second step third fourth doesn't necessarily mean the first second article but a kind of clear >> segment basically yeah >> and I also heard you say these things like if you spot like you just mentioned if you spot the weakest competitor or the weakest chunk of a competitor's site >> that becomes your first action Yeah, there are two examples for this. For instance, for Oscar Wy when we created a case with them, we started from actually face shapes, but the company actually is an optimist. So from an optometrist, the face shape, there is not a direct connection. But the first article that we published was about the list of face shapes, how to understand your face shape. Then next step was actually uh glasses for every face shape, for oval face, for every type of other face. Then we went to the eye colors, then hair colors, then style of the wearing etc. I started from fasion because the fasion was easier to rank. But the moment that I started go to the eye anatomy, eye diseases, eye problems, eye test etc. which are harder to penetrate. I got my attraction from actually first in outer section. Then I went into the court. The another one is uh different craft holsters.com. I actually was in my speech in Vienna also in Kushasa Turkey too. I gave like over 20 websites with their names. One of them basically uh we started to focus on the most important attribute there which is Glock because website was losing rankings which is what we call negative ranking state and if you're a negative ranking state it doesn't matter what you do until you are able to have a major core update or an algorithm update this drop will keep going to have a rare ranking there I created a new uh block or new segment for glo basically >> and we fixed everything for glo section we mostly linked that section and Google was able to crawl that section are and then they judge the rest of the website from that good section and that section increases traffic for 40% which helped rest of the website to also stop dropping the rankings and also increase 16% other segment. So the fix the section that we fixed increased 40 rest of the side as much as I can remember it was actually 16% average. So which means that this actually stopped that drops from the core and actually helped the others then we implemented same principles and sections for the other sections as well for every other brand but there is always a logical order and priority for them that is >> it's also very interesting that everything doesn't seem so like fixated. It's almost like you can balance things out, overcorrect them or rep prioritize. It's almost like you can reallocate resources from one section to the other. >> It's also similar, let's say, in cases where the source context maybe is something unique or special and there is a very scarce like a minimal amount of indices available which forces you to go further into the outer section to try to gain attention from somewhere else. >> True. Because you will need historical data. If you are not popular in terms of traffic, impression or page rank or brand search demand or direct traffic or social media share, it's very hard to take the attention of search engine because you should understand that Google has limited resources and it's a med media and ads company. If they already know that the current SER is satisfying the users just for increasing satisfaction for one person for a very rarely asked question, they wouldn't be doing a giant ranking. But if you are able to be a complet another candidate for all the ranking sources. Then actually you can trigger a kinds of search engine result page change across all the queries and all the topics. That's one of the things that actually uh separate our methodology from this let's say quick one page one keyword type of uh networking ancient mindset because you have to do the SEO for all the site and for all the topic. If your brand is a small brand, let's say you are in the cosmetic industry and you are having just eight products in your portfolio and your competitor let's assume Amazon or somewhere else and they have like 400 products uh with 600 different ingredients and for 300 different skin problems they have an advantage it means because they will be able to implement the principle of actually vastness and you can't because even if you publish many documents on these topics you are not able to sell anything and if you don't have a commercial page you won't be able to rank there. But still for these small number of topics which also we did for metal and blue in that context still if you're able to have the kinds of very deep and well organized content network for a small topic you can also use the advantage of being a small website too for instance giant websites usually are affected from core updates or spam updates heavier compared to the smaller ones and you can actually focus on a main topic you can consolidate your internal and external page rank as well to a small group of topics and the pages And you can actually rank higher through that as well. So in SEO that's why I find it very close to the military. You can always look at the terrain or conditions logistics and you can create a different strategy always. >> Yeah. So it's very interesting how let's say if you look at a spreadsheet visually you can just see a list of topics but the reality is that it's almost like a multi-dimensional. >> Yeah. On automatically it is very different. >> It comes based on the indices which is like a real priority and like view of Google. It's yes, it is all about actually how Google process the query and construct an index for it. The same also goes for Google AI mode and AI overviews too because it's not independent from index or index structure because if you look at the anant shlas uh search with stateful chat pattern you will see that all process starts with search result document selection engine then they have the LLM selection engine >> which LLM selection also comes from according to your pages structure in terms of uh content and also uh tonality that you are using. So in terms of the search result document selection engine, it is coming directly like this. Let's say I have written a giant prompt. They chunk the prompt into multiple pieces. They do multiple searches from multiple indices and they brought bring all the documents together and they then they do actually LLM and passage selections to bring the passages together to construct uh kinds of aggregated or unified answer basically >> and you can imagine by yourself if you are already present in all of these indices what will happen naturally. So >> that's >> that's the magic of go. >> Yeah. Basically when you create a topical map you already cover all these indices and all these topics which means wherever Google looks at for a chunk version of the prompt you are there >> with a document. If they realize that most of the answers come from a single or very authorative resource it makes actually it's easier for them to trust you at the same time. >> Yeah. And um about a few more words about the sort of the dynamic setup for the topical map. Let's say if uh campaign is very limited within this budget, >> is it possible to tweak or adapt the map for more restrained resources? >> True. But at the same time, it is actually about uh what's the burn rate? If the burn rate is very high for the company and if they need quick cash to come from actually SEO then in that case actually I will be directly focusing on homepage or the most important category pages directly to actually create a very true uh content briefs especially for because when we use a semantic content network it is consisting of the content briefs topical map actually tells you what topics you should be creating uh with contemporaries >> and when we create this content briefs for the seed or the root pages technically uh directly it means that actually you need to be putting really good amount of work for them and you need to consolidate all of your ranking signals to the very small number of URLs or the pages so you can do that but if the burn rate is lower and if you are able to actually distribute your project through the time with uh a proper let's say routine like uh you can always increase your publication momentum by covering more topics and you can decrease the burn rate slowly fully and then you can start to increase the profit from organics as well. It is a little bit about actually learning uh let's say what is our production capacity, design capacity and development capacity while uh how many more months we have actually with this burn rate. If you're able to calculate these things properly, you can do a proper campaign technically. So from this standpoint, it seems like even though like an exceptionally perfect topical map and an amateur's topical map or like a list of keywords, visually they would look exactly the same. >> Yeah, it's Google shape. >> But but the the meaning and the value behind it is incomparable. >> It sounds happening because uh I mean for instance the other day I was training a company from law industry and one of the person there I explained this to you earlier too. the person was actually from our course and he said that okay but I'm from your course but what explained you right now is way advanced and different than your course is this new or you didn't explain it back then because if I would be putting all these details to the course it will making everything more complicated that's why it should be looking same because if I make it look different and I need to add more columns more concepts more definitions which are making it even harder and we don't have that chance on today's the world so you expect people to learn by themselves Sometimes another one is that uh the reason that people the person actually talking was talking that way because in to the course for instance we didn't put web layout optimization or visual semantics that much >> but even in my speech for instance today in this event and Vienna and also in some past Estonia speeches too I explained it actually we do lots of things for visual optimization of pages with semantics whether category page whether product page whether local SEO pages or homepages as well you saw some of them from again lo with Mr. to we write 25,000 words but it's not all text it's also about how you place them as well. So technically even if you create a content brief the content briefs also can be looking same as topical maps but how you prioritize topics in a topical map and how you also code this content brief to become a web page also matters or differentiate greatly as well. So visual semantics also should be implemented there. Probably this is going to be coming to the course also next year together with authorship because we need to close these gaps for people too. >> I see. So very very high levels of complexity lots of like moving pieces of a puzzle to try to balance. So then let's say what happens or what to do in a case where some SEO wants to go into a niche that they know nothing about or let's say they got a client that builds electric cars and they don't know anything about electric cars. >> What would you suggest them how to approach this thing? Because it looks like you have to be really familiar with the industry to understand the topic of course. So let's say electric cars is if it is a client that builds electric cars they wouldn't be having a branding problem in my estimation they would be having also digital PR or uh good amount of actually let's say social outreach which creates an advantage there for these type of companies I would be going basically and directly wider amount of topics because probably I won't be having that much of a page rank problem and my brand search demand will be increasing through the time whenever I'm able to publish these pages earlier it means actually I will be gaining more historical data which will increasing my trust signals there but at the same time if I'm building electric cars through that actually I need to be comparing electric cars to the regular cars and I need to be going for electric car chargers and electric car let's say battery types or a car anatomy or electric car problems issues or solutions and all these let's say most expensive electric cars and also in the index structure again if the search demand is too low and document cluster is too small Google doesn't construct an index if you search something like let's say the most expensive or the most luxurious electric cars uh in Asia. Let's say if the search demand for this complete section is too low, Google usually takes this and directly blend it together with a higher topic which means the most luxurious cars whether in Azia or not or whether electric or not >> which means that actually you will need to be basically choosing a micro context from a higher group of topics and you will need to place electric cars there as one of the segments or some of the sections and you will always need to bring it closer to your source contact which is electric cars in that case And you want to be covering all these group of pages. When it comes to the selling cars, usually I know the industry they are visiting maybe more than 60 uh pages. Then they do the purchase. So usually you need to increase actually instore visits for that which means you need to increase phone calls or some other type of sections which requires you to actually rank for many different type of car brands. And usually for these companies I also open a directory of cars like all models or all of their problems solutions engine problems engine models. If you have resources I will go with like that. If I don't have the resources I will keep it closer to the my own segment but then I will be going deeper for every one of these pages basically. >> Makes sense. So what I'm hearing from you [snorts] in a scenario if you're not familiar with the topic like you're literally clueless what it means as long as you still have the true SEO skill set to walk the indices >> y >> and expand them you are like unbeatable you'll handle every single scenario in every other language >> 100% >> in every language in every industry >> you're walking these blocks you're not caring about >> true like in even actually one of my friends told that by using our course he was actually teaching his own kids how to speak Like basically he was using lexical semantics which is already in the human brain like there is a concept and there's a higher hierarchy lower hierarchy siblings and the part and whole relationships >> and he was actually teaching the concepts of the her kid and the kid basically was able to always understand that okay if this thing exists then there should be a higher hierarchy lower hierarchy siblings and the part and the whole relationship. Same also goes for electric cars or many other things. you are able to connect these concepts to the queries and queries to the questions and from questions to the passages and from passages to the entire web document can be actually designed and created >> right and I assume if [snorts] uh you have a salesperson in the team or the actual manager they can probably consult you and give you these points like what's the actual user journey and sort of >> we always also ask like a kind of can you give us a kind of brochure about your company like what is your brand book what words are for what type type of tonality you prefer and what for instance we have a company for anofluxis for instance and it's very hard to write medical terms because they don't want to mention some phrases let's say ephedrin but without ranking there without mentioning ephedrin it's harder >> so we need to find other things in CBD industry it's hard to fight against FDA that's why we are not able to write s the phrase an anxiety instead of that we have to say everyday stress >> for instance so you need to be always like balancing mult multiple factors from search engine side, customer side, business model side, FDA type of regulation side and still you should be able to rank and convert basically. >> Awesome. Makes makes a lot of sense. >> Last few questions that I have for you. >> So the concept of topical night became viral became super popular. You can look you can see it on social media across the board on YouTube across the board. >> Uh my first uh question uh do you sell topical maps yourself? It was very funny because when I actually announced the phrase or the concept of topical map and the methodology first time seven days later somebody was selling it like but they didn't even see what a topical map is. That's the problem. Another thing in the SEO industry is that when they don't actually credit you, they think that actually okay whatever Korai does, we also know we also sell it. You don't need to worry. The same also happens with LLM optimization, AIG or whatever. Most agencies even don't know what these things are. They are just trying to do the sales and it creates a kinds of discrediting and also trying to hijack basically what another person does. But the thing is like 90 95% of the deliverables or delivered alleged topical maps are not a real topical map actually. It's like whatever they were doing before they just called it with a different name that actually we do which actually made things harder for us to also explain to the people as well. So I don't sell topical mass because even if I sell to be able to implement it you you need guidance and if you won't be able to implement something there directly why shall I sell it? So it doesn't make sense. I could make really huge sum of money by just actually promoting a service and and giving some stuff there but I didn't do that because I didn't find it right and I remembered actually from Chiang Mai I can't give the name I guess Jaz Ruben I guess the name a friend from India he lives in Chiang Mai and he said that he has a friend and he saw our interview with Matt and the friend told that okay this sounds nice but it's it's it will be forgotten in seven days and now that friend actually is selling topical maps still after four years >> still he is doing that so I didn't give that authority to anyone or license or something and anyone who tries to sell it even without learning our course or system shouldn't be trusted with 100 person I can say they just call it topical map and if I would be calling it semantic map they will be calling it semantic map if I would be calling it semantic authority not the topical authority they will be calling it semantic authority as well >> so it's not about actually what they go under this name with their own mindset. They are just trying to jump on the wagon and try to take a share from the industry basically. >> Yeah, makes sense. Given the complexity of the topical map, you can also probably estimate the actual value and efficiency of this thing like the amount of resource allocation, prioritization, research, very thorough like reordering and analysis like the actual prop topical topical map basically solves like a >> 60 70% of the overall problems. Yeah. Yeah, >> as long as you execute and follow it properly, you're essentially >> it's actually kind of digital marketing planning for every angle I can say it's not just about even SEO for instance for with Oscar value or for others when we rank for some out topical map topics they realize that they can also sell more stuff because they will rank they started to sell lenses or these drops for eye etc because we rank for it and if you rank for it why shall we not sell it so It's also empowering your business model and also diversity of your products or services as well. Uh so it will be a kinds of basically communication strategy with the search engine users while using the search engines indexing ranking methods which also empowers your business model at the same time. >> Awesome. Thank you so much for the explanation. I think I think it was great. Thanks so much. Thank you so much.
